Llm features (#1631)
codeforboston/maple: llm/readme.md

Reviewer: Can you please add discussion of the `chapter_section_names.pq` file and why we have uploaded it as a binary blob in this PR? Eventually, this should be replaced by a direct query of our data backend.

Reviewer: Please also explain how you set the env variable for the OpenAI API key.

# Massachusetts Legislative Bill Analysis

This directory contains code for summarizing and tagging Massachusetts Legislative bills using LLMs.

## Overview

The main functionality is implemented in `llm_functions.py`, which provides methods for:

1. Summarizing bills
2. Categorizing bills
3. Tagging bills with relevant topics

## Files

- `demo_app_functions.py`: Main file containing the core functionality
- `prompts.py`: Contains predefined prompt templates for various NLP tasks
- `tagging.py`: Includes category and tag definitions for bill classification

## Key Features

- Bill summarization using GPT models
- Categorization of bills into predefined categories
- Tagging bills with relevant topics from a curated list
- Handling of both small and large documents using different approaches (standard and RAG)
- Integration with Massachusetts General Laws (MGL) for context-aware analysis

## Requirements

> - Python 3.x

Reviewer: Maybe specify the minor version, i.e. 3 point what?

The file contains the following columns:
- `Chapter_Number`
- `Section_Number`
- `Chapter`
- `Section Name`

#### Current Usage

The file is used in the `get_chap_sec_names_internal` function to fetch chapter and section names for bills. This function reads the Parquet file and matches chapter and section numbers to their corresponding names.

#### Future Plans

The use of this local Parquet file is a temporary solution. In future iterations of the project, we plan to replace this with a direct query to our data backend. This change will:

- Improve data consistency and updates
- Remove the need for storing large data files in the repository
- Allow for more complex queries and data relationships

#### Note for Contributors

When working on features that interact with MGL chapter and section data, please be aware that the data source for this information will change in the future. Design your code with this eventual transition in mind.

If you're adding new features that require MGL data, consider how they might interface with a database in the future instead of relying solely on the Parquet file.

## Environment Setup

### OpenAI API Key

> This project uses OpenAI's API for various language processing tasks. To use the OpenAI API, you need to set up your API key as an environment variable. The application expects the API key to be available in the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable.

Reviewer: Good!

Author: Thanks

# Massachusetts Legislative Bill Analysis

> This repository contains code for summarizing and tagging Massachusetts Legislative bills using LLMs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This directory contains code for summarizing and tagging Massachusetts Legislative bills using LLMs.
```

## Overview

> The main functionality is implemented in `demo_app_functions.py`, which provides methods for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main functionality is implemented in `llm_functions.py`, which provides methods for:
```

1. Summarizing bills
2. Categorizing bills
3. Tagging bills with relevant topics

## Files

- `demo_app_functions.py`: Main file containing the core functionality
- `prompts.py`: Contains predefined prompt templates for various NLP tasks
- `tagging.py`: Includes category and tag definitions for bill classification

## Key Features

- Bill summarization using GPT models
- Categorization of bills into predefined categories
- Tagging bills with relevant topics from a curated list
- Handling of both small and large documents using different approaches (standard and RAG)
- Integration with Massachusetts General Laws (MGL) for context-aware analysis

## Requirements

- Python 3.x
- Dependencies listed in `requirements.txt`

## Usage

To use the main functions:

```python
from demo_app_functions import get_summary_api_function, get_tags_api_function

# For summarization
summary = get_summary_api_function(bill_id, bill_title, bill_text)

# For tagging
tags = get_tags_api_function(bill_id, bill_title, bill_text)
```

## Note

> This project is designed to work with Massachusetts legislative bills and may require specific data sources or API access for full functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project is designed to work with Massachusetts legislative bills, but could be adopted to work with other states' bills, general laws, etc.
```

> For more detailed information on each module and function, please refer to the individual file docstrings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We only have one file and it does not have a detailed docstring...
